Hi everyone, I'm Mika. I'm a software developer at Stanford University and I'm
going to be telling you about a set of tools and templates that me and my
collaborators have been developing to help improve data sharing. Imagine you're
a researcher and you've painstakingly created a high-value data set. For
example, maybe you've taken body measurements from hundreds of penguins
and some people know what's going. So now you want to share your data with the
world. And you might want to do that in a way that follows guidelines that are
known as FAIR, making sure that your data is findable, accessible, interoperable,
and reusable. So how do you share your data? The easiest and most common thing
that people do is just put a static file with your data somewhere people can
access, like a GitHub repo. And this is really quick and easy to do, but it
doesn't provide much support for your audience. If they want to look at your
data, they have to clone your repo or download the file, figure out what's
going on in there, and do any visualization that they might want to do
manually themselves. And I bet many of us can relate to the frustrating
experience of opening someone else's data spreadsheet and being like,
what on earth is going on here? So on the other hand, you could put in a lot of
time and effort into making a custom repository, like maybe a database with an
API, and you can make a custom website or a Shiny app with fancy visualizations.
And all the stuff would be super helpful for your users, but a ton of work for you.
So personally, I've done both of these things many times for different projects,
and I wanted to help researchers and other people who manage data get the
best of both worlds. So I'll be telling you about how to create a data page,
which is basically a website for your data that's both easy to make and has a
lot of rich features that make it easy to use. So what are the components of a
data page? First off, you use the Redivis data platform to store your data set,
which for free immediately means that your data is versioned. And then you use
our custom data pages Corda format to connect to this data to a Corda website
that you can configure and customize. At the center of this website are
interactive visualizations created using Observable. So also you can add ggplot
or whatever other visualizations you want. And all this results in a static
website so it can be hosted on GitHub pages, but it has rich interactive
functionality. I'm going to walk you through more concretely the steps you
would follow to spin up a new data page. To get started, all you would need to do
is use the data page GitHub template repo to create your own repo. And this
gives you a template Corda website that uses our custom data pages Corda
project type and format. And you then customize this website by adding
information and formatting specific to your project and connecting it to the
Redivis table with your data. What do you get from doing all this? You get a
website. The home page of your data page introduces your data set and features
these automatically created interactive visualizations. So this means that users
can get a feel for your data right away. And you can customize this through
configuration, through like YAML variables, or by adding like any custom
content you want, or by swapping out these templated visualizations. And a
major area of focus for us is adding more configurability and more types of
visualizations for you. In addition to the home page, other pages include the
data page where there's an embedded table browser inserted through a custom
shortcode. So users who might want to actually look at your data in more
detail can use this browser to preview your data and your metadata. Even more
involved users can go to the analysis page to see an automatically generated
code snippet that tells them how to access the data directly from R or from
Python. And then finally on the about page you can edit all this YAML to add
links, to add citation information, and then you can add whatever content you
want. And of course since this whole thing is a Corda website you can add
other pages, you can customize the styling, and use all the amazing features
that Corda now has and will have in the future. If you go to datapages.github.io
you'll see a gallery of the different data pages we've made and find out how
to get started with making your own. Thank you.